[WIP] TELCODOCS-1707: Lifecycle Agent GA (#74025)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-image-based-upgrade-guidelines.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * edge_computing/image-based-upgrade/cnf-understanding-image-based-upgrade.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-guide_{context}"]
= Guidelines for the image-based upgrade

For a successful image-based upgrade, your deployments need to consider certain requirements.

There are different deployment methods in which you can perform the image-based upgrade:

{ztp}:: You use the {ztp-first} to deploy and configure your clusters.

> Non-GitOps:: You only use {rh-rhacm-first} to deploy and configure your clusters.

Reviewer: ACM is not a requirement to install SNO.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp-image-based-upgrade.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-guide_{context}"]
= Guidelines for the image-based upgrade

For a successful image-based upgrade, your deployments need to consider certain requirements.

There are different deployment methods in which you can perform the image-based upgrade:

{ztp}:: You utilize the {ztp-first} to deploy and configure your clusters.
Non-GitOps:: You only use {rh-rhacm-first} to deploy and configure your clusters.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-cluster-validated-software_{context}"]
== Minimum software version of components

Depending on your deployment method, the image-based upgrade requires the following minimum software versions.

.Minimum software version of components
[cols=3*, width="80%", options="header"]
|====
|Component
|Software version
|Required

|{lcao}

> |4.16

Author: Checked with the team, using LCA 4.16 for OCP 4.16

|Yes

|OADP Operator
|1.3.1
|Yes

|Managed cluster version
|4.14.13
|Yes

|Hub cluster version
|4.16
|Yes

|{rh-rhacm}
|2.10.2
|Yes

|{ztp} plugin
|4.16
|Only for {ztp} deployment method

|{gitops-title}

> |TBD

Reviewer 2: This and next TBD entries should be updated with versions or something other than TBD

For more information about what to include in the seed image, see _Seed image configuration_ and _Seed image configuration using the RAN DU profile_.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-extra-manifests-guide_{context}"]
== Extra manifest guidelines

The {lcao} uses extra manifests to restore your target clusters after rebooting with the new default stateroot deployment and before restoring application artifacts.

Different deployment methods require a different way to apply the extra manifests:

{ztp}:: You use the `target-ocp-version: <target_ocp_version>` label to mark the extra manifests that the {lcao} must extract and apply after the pivot.
Non-Gitops:: You mark your extra manifests with the `lca.openshift.io/apply-wave` annotation to determine the apply order. The labelled extra manifests are wrapped in `ConfigMap` objects and referenced in the `ImageBasedUpgrade` CR that the {lcao} uses after the pivot.

> If the target cluster uses custom catalog sources, you must include them as extra manifests that points to the correct release version.

Reviewer 2: int
```suggestion
If the target cluster uses custom catalog sources, you must include them as extra manifests that point to the correct release version.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
For both Operators, you must not apply the Operator CRs as extra manifests through the `ImageBasedUpgrade` CR.
====

The persistent volume contents are preserved and used after the pivot.
When you are configuring the `DataProtectionApplication` CR, you must ensure that the `.spec.configuration.restic.enable` is set to `false` for an image-based upgrade.
This disables Container Storage Interface integration.

You must create separate `Backup` and `Restore` CRs to scope the backup to the cluster-scoped resources created by the application. 
The `Restore` CR for the cluster-scoped resources must be restored before the remaining application `Restore` CR(s).
The `lca.openshift.io/apply-wave` annotation determines the apply order of `Restore` CRs.
If you do not define the `lca.openshift.io/apply-wave` annotation in the `Backup` or `Restore` CRs, they will be applied together.

If you are using LSO or {lvms}, ensure that the `lca.openshift.io/apply-wave` annotation is numerically lower in your platform `Backup` and `Restore` CRs than that of the application so that they are restored before your applications.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-apply-label-guide_{context}"]

> == lca.openshift.io/apply-label guidelines

Author: Moved under OADP

{ztp}:: You utilize the {ztp-first} to deploy and configure your clusters.
Non-GitOps:: You only use {rh-rhacm-first} to deploy and configure your clusters.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-cluster-validated-software_{context}"]
== Minimum software version of components

Depending on your deployment method, the image-based upgrade requires the following minimum software versions.

.Minimum software version of components
[cols=3*, width="80%", options="header"]
|====
|Component
|Software version
|Required

|{lcao}
|4.16
|Yes

|OADP Operator
|1.3.1
|Yes

|Managed cluster version
|4.14.13
|Yes

|Hub cluster version
|4.16
|Yes

|{rh-rhacm}
|2.10.2
|Yes

|{ztp} plugin
|4.16
|Only for {ztp} deployment method

|{gitops-title}
|TBD
|Only for {ztp} deployment method

|{cgu-operator-first}
|4.16
|Only for {ztp} deployment method

|Local Storage Operator ^[1]^
|TBD
|Yes

|{lvms-first} ^[1]^
|4.14.2
|Yes
|====
. The persistent storage must be provided by either the {lvms} or the Local Storage Operator, not both.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-hub-cluster-guide_{context}"]
== Hub cluster guidelines

If you are using {rh-rhacm-first}, your hub cluster needs to meet the following conditions:

> * To avoid including any {rh-rhacm} resources in your seed image, you need to disable all optional {rh-rhacm} add-ons for the seed image generation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* To avoid including any {rh-rhacm} resources in your seed image, you need to disable all optional {rh-rhacm} add-ons before initiating seed image generation or before generating seed image.
```

Author: I feel this could lead to confusion but maybe I'm just not seeing the difference between "before initiating seed image generation" vs "before generating seed image". Why isn't only one of them enough here?

Reviewer 3: yes, I have given 2 options , we can implement either of them as per our documentation guidelines.

Author: Okay, going with "before generating seed image" then

> * Your hub cluster must be upgraded at least to the target version before performing an image-based upgrade.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Your hub cluster must be upgraded at least to the target version before performing an image-based upgrade on target single-node openshift cluster.
```
